In this report, "Finding potential chess cheaters using Spark, SQL, and the Lichess database", it is proposed the use of Spark and SQL to analyze chess data and identify potential chess cheaters. It is a very interesting application of graph-based analysis.

The Introduction section brings a comprehensive discussion on chess and related concepts and elements (opening theory, engines etc). There are also some comments
on the evolution of the game. The main proposal is stated as "building a list of potential cheaters that can be further investigated" (and a specific section
proposing ways to do that - eg analyzing how long each move takes - is mentioned). The student argued that his/her personal experience as a chess player would also help in analyzing the results achieved in the work. The Abstract section does not help in the report: it brings a series of sentences on the analysis of Opening and use of engines, and how these can help for cheating. It does not comment on the proposed work (problem, proposed solution, methodology and brief overview of results) as usually expected from an abstract. I would suggest removing the abstract and adjusting the Introduction to better specify the proposed work and contributions.

The solution concept is very specific to the problem being addressed. The methodology applies a series of analyses based on the Opening each player chooses, variations in the Openings, and GR difference. There is no clear explanation of what methods were used in the work to select/filter data and then perform the analysis. Although there is a consistent set of SQL commands in the code, it would be nice to put some details in the report related to your implementation. During the feedback for your project proposal, it was suggested to discuss "what data analysis you want to perform", consider other methods (eg TrueSkill) or even try to use larger or more complex datasets. Some comments on these suggestions would be nice to better define the scope and contributions from your work, as well as set expectations. Some words on how your work relates to other works would help to assess the contribution and/or novelty of your proposal as well.

Good implementation of conducting exploratory data analysis implemented in Spark to evaluate chess cheaters from Lichess dataset. Both PySpark, Spark SQL and Spark DataFrames are the utilised for the implementing. Code is well structured and with details comments. Overall, the implementation is good.

Data from the Lichess database was sampled to comprise 121,332 games from January 2013. There is an explanation of some hardware/resource limitations that led to this restriction on the data, although it is said the data is quite representative to the problem. Again, you should refer to the feedback received from your proposal related to the dataset and discuss any limitation or alternatives. The structure of the database is also discussed.

The numerical evaluation consists of performing DataFrames transformations, sending queries to the dataset to understand the data structure and summarising the dataset in the well designed tables. The final outputs are presented in the tables. However, no clear explanations of the numerical evaluation (e.g. how to perform data analysis) are provided.

The Conclusion section brings some insights from the observed results and discusses situations where the players could be classified as cheaters or not, based on their historical behaviour. One contribution claimed from the work is the substantial reduction on the list of potential cheats, although it is not clear or easy to assess that claim - a comparison with other works (or even official lists) would help. Some comments on a possible overestimation are also made and pointed out as an issue worth further investigation.

The presentation is good and explains all steps of the work. It would be nice to better relate the written report with the code, so the reader can get a clearer view/understanding of the main decisions related to the work (eg an abstract description of the set of SQL commands used and the rationale behind them).

Overall, this is a very interesting work focusing on a specific application domain. It would be nice to compare your work to similar proposals or even discuss
the feasibility of your approach in a real scenario (eg. replicating to other databases or using bigger samples). It is mentioned the development of additional routines to compare your results to those officially recorded on main chess platforms and systems (and this would be a nice improvement).

**Mark: 57**
